       The sahuagin are horrid creatures that lurk in the oceans. These "sea devils" leave ships adrift, steal away whole villages, and force other aquatic species to gird for war. They appear as some sort of cross between humanoids and fish. While their scaled frame looks like human, they are larger with most sahuagin being at least seven foot tall; they also boast a tail that ends in a fish-like fin. Sahuagin are complex beings. They have keen intellects and crave order and structure, yet they always boil with barely suppressed rage and bloodlust. 
      As a people, sahuagin seek nothing less than total domination of the seas. Unlike most aquatic humanoids, sahuagin thrive at any depth or temperature. Even still, they show a marked preference for warm coastal waters (perhaps due to an abundance of both food and beings to terrorize). They build vast cities in the depths of the ocean, while near the shoreline they create fortresses from which to launch raid after raid against land dwellers.
       Sahuagin live under a feudal system that embodies a ruthless enforcement of order. Each sahuagin earns and holds its position with its own prowess and skills rather than its bloodline or noble title. Everyone aspires to bend the others to her will and become the ruler of an empire, ushering in the inevitable age of sahuagin ascendance.
       Sahuagin view other creatures through the lens of their appetites: weak races live only to serve as slaves or to fill the belly. Sahuagin rarely ally with creatures other than their beloved sharks and the shark-like adaros. They despise aquatic elves and merfolk (mermen & mermaids), seeing them as weaklings fit only for slavery and feasting. The krakens earn a mixture of loathing and respect, as these beings represent the greatest impediment to sahuagin dominion of the seas.
       Young sahuagin are born into clutches of about 200 eggs, which females lay in well-protected egg chambers. A single settlement typically has one chamber, but larger cities can have up to a dozen. Eggs hatch 3 months after being laid, spawning eel-like fingerlings. Hatching provokes a violent frenzy, as the newborn fingerlings devour the weaker members. Only the clever, fast, and strong survive long in the egg chambers. Sahuagin parents return to claim their surviving young after a year, recognizing their offspring by scent. Only about one fourth of the newborns can survive after the first year. Some young remain unclaimed, because their parents either have perished or cannot track down the scent. The sahuagin barracks raise such foundlings and thrust them into battle as soon as they can wield a trident.
       Sahuagin mature quickly. They reach their adult size of 7 feet tall around their sixth year. Sahuagin have long, possibly unlimited life spans, though violence claims most before they reach their thirtieth year. However, in rare cases, those particularly fierce princes and queens have ruled for hundreds of years as sahuagin's bodies don't decline with age. 
       As a species, sahuagin are particularly prone to mutations. These mutations are seen as a divine blessing, and those who possess them frequently rise to the highest level of sahuagin society. The most common are the fearsome four-armed sahuagin, perhaps accounting for one in 100 surviving hatchlings. Other mutations, such as sightless sahuagin, shark-blooded sahuagin, and spined sahuagin, appear to arise due to environmental conditions or nearness to other species, or perhaps in response to trace contaminants in the water.=Question Set 1

S01 Which option best describes sahuagin's size and appearance?
A) They are humanoids with finned tails and are larger than human.
B) They are humanoids with webbed limbs and are larger than human.
C) They are humanoids with webbed limbs and are smaller than human.
D) Then are humanoids with finned tails and are smaller than human.

S02 Which of these species is a probable alliance with sahuagin?
A) The krakens    B) Aquatic elves    C) Merfolk    D) Adaros

S03 What does sahuagin seek as a people?
A) Resurrection of their ancient god
B) Inner balance between their keen intelligence and boiling rage
C) Domination of the outer realms
D) Conquest of all the seas

S04 What kind of ecological environment can sahuagins live in? 
A) Water of any depth or temperature    B) Mostly deep wild oceans 
C) Mostly warm coastal waters                D) Mostly offshore waters 

S05 How does each sahuagin earn and hold its own position in the sahuagin society?
A) By its own prowess and skills.             B) By traditions in its bloodline. 
C) By manipulation and conspiracies.            D) By age and experiences. =Question Set 2

S06 How many sahuagin newborns in a chamber can survive after the first year of incubation?
A) About 20    B) About 50    C) About 100    D) About 200

S07 How does sahuagin society deal with the foundlings (the hatched youths that remain unclaimed) after a year of incubation?
A) The foundlings would be regarded as failures and banished from the community.
B) The foundlings would be accepted and raised by public orphanages.
C) The foundlings would have to find their own ways to survive in the society.
D) The foundlings would be raised by sahuagin barracks as solders.

S08 How long do the majority of sahuagins live before their death in violance?
A) Very long, possibly infinite.                B) Less than 30 years. 
C) Less than 15 years.                           D) Less than 6 years. 

S09 How does sahuagin society view mutations?
A) Mutations are curses with power. 
B) Mutations are divine blessings.
C) Mutations are processes of evolution.
D) Mutations are indications of prominence. 

S10 Which is the most common mutation of sahuagin?
A) Four-armed mutation     B) Sightless mutation    C) Shark-blooded mutation    D) Spined mutation